README.md, before:

# Intersight IaC Wizard

[![published](https://static.production.devnetcloud.com/codeexchange/assets/images/devnet-published.svg)](https://developer.cisco.com/codeexchange/github/repo/scotttyso/intersight_iac)

## Updates/News

03-08-2022
* Added Windows Support

* IMPORTANT - There is currently a bug with Policy Buckets for UCS Domain Profiles.  That is the only reason ucs_domain_profiles are not in the same folder as chassis and servers.  When this is fixed the ucs_domain_profiles folder will be merged with the profiles folder.  Because of this limitation at this time make sure to create a seperate policy for Domains of the following types:

- network_connectivity_policies - If Using Standalone Server Policies
- ntp_policies - If Using Standalone Server Policies
- snmp_policies
- syslog_policies

## Getting Started

## Install Visual Studio Code

- Download Here: [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download)

- Recommended Extensions: 
  - GitHub Pull Requests and Issues - Author GitHub
  - HashiCorp Terraform - Author HashiCorp
  - Pylance - Author Microsoft
  - Python - Author Microsoft
  - PowerShell (Windows) - Author Microsoft

- Authorize Visual Studio Code to GitHub via the GitHub Extension

## Install git

- Linux - Use the System Package Manager - apt/yum etc.

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install git
```

- Windows Download Here: [Git](https://git-scm.com/download/win)

configure Git Credentials

```bash
git config --global user.name "<username>"   
git config --global user.email "<email>"
```

### Install the Go Compiler - Linux (Ubuntu Example)

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install golang
```
### Install the Go Compiler - Windows

- Download Here: [Go](https://go.dev/dl/)

- Add the Go Compiler to the System Path.

```powershell
$oldpath = (Get-ItemProperty -Path 'Registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\Environment' -Name PATH).path
$newpath = "$oldpath;C:\Program Files\Go\bin"
Set-ItemProperty -Path 'Registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\Environment' -Name PATH -Value $newpath
```

### Build hcl2json - Linux & Windows

```bash
git clone https://github.com/tmccombs/hcl2json
cd hcl2json
go build
```
### Move the hcl2json binary to a system Path

- Linux Example

```bash
mv ./hcl2json /usr/local/bin/
or 
mv ./hcl2json /usr/bin/
```

- Windows Example

```powershell
move hcl2json.exe C:\Windows\
```

## Python Requirements

- Python 3.6 or Greater
- Linux - Use the System Package Manager - apt/yum etc.
- Windows Download Here: [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) 
- For Windows.  Make sure python.exe and pip.exe are available via the system path.
- Windows Example (The Folder Python310 would be according to the Python Release)

```powershell
$oldpath = (Get-ItemProperty -Path 'Registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\Environment' -Name PATH).path
$newpath = "$oldpath;%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python310\;%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python310\Scripts\"
Set-ItemProperty -Path 'Registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\Environment' -Name PATH -Value $newpath
```

- Install the Requirements File

```bash
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Terraform Requirements

The script utilizes features introduced in 0.14 of Terraform.  So we need 0.14 or preferrably >1.0

- Download Here [terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) 
- For Windows Make sure it is in a Directory that is in the system path.

### Terraform Modules and Providers

This script will utilize the Intersight Terraform Provider and two modules built off of the Intersight Provider.

- [Intersight Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/CiscoDevNet/intersight/latest)
- [IMM Module](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/terraform-cisco-modules/imm/intersight/latest)
- [Easy IMM](https://github.com/terraform-cisco-modules/terraform-intersight-easy-imm)

## Running the Wizard

- It is recommend to add the following secure variables to your environment before running the script

- Linux

```bash
## Intersight Variables
export TF_VAR_apikey="<your_intersight_api_key>"
export TF_VAR_secretkey=`cat ~/Downloads/SecretKey.txt` 
# The above example is based on the key being in your Downloads folder.  Correct for your environment.

## Terraform Cloud Variables
export TF_VAR_terraform_cloud_token="<your_terraform_cloud_token>"
```

- Windows - Plugin your API Keys and the File Location of the Intersight Secret Key.

```powershell
## Powershell Intersight Variables
$env:TF_VAR_apikey="<your_intersight_api_key>"
$env:TF_VAR_secretkey="$HOME\Downloads\SecretKey.txt"
# The above example is based on the key being in your Downloads folder.  Correct for your environment.

## Powershell Terraform Cloud Variables
$env:TF_VAR_terraform_cloud_token="<your_terraform_cloud_token>"
```

### Running the Wizard for Brownfield Migration with the IMM Transition Tool
- Running the wizard to use a configuration migrated from UCS Manager using the IMM Transition Tool

```bash
./main.py -j {json_file_name.json}
```

### Running the Wizard for Greenfield Deployment
- Running the Wizard to generate IaC through a Question and Answer Wizard

```bash
./main.py
```

## Wizard Help Menu

```bash
./main.py -h

Intersight Easy IMM Deployment Module

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -a API_KEY_ID, --api-key-id API_KEY_ID
                        The Intersight API client key id for HTTP signature scheme
  -s API_KEY_FILE, --api-key-file API_KEY_FILE
                        Name of file containing The Intersight secret key for the HTTP signature scheme
  --api-key-v3          Use New API client (v3) key
  -d DIR, --dir DIR     The Directory to Publish the Terraform Files to.
  -i, --ignore-tls      Ignore TLS server-side certificate verification
  -j JSON_FILE, --json_file JSON_FILE
                        The IMM Transition Tool JSON Dump File to Convert to HCL.
  -u URL, --url URL     The Intersight root URL for the API endpoint. The default is https://intersight.com
```

## Terraform Plan and Apply

After the Script has generated the Terraform Directories and downloaded the resources from the Easy IMM Repository, the data will need to be pushed to Intersight using Terraform Cloud.  It is important to execute the Workspaces in the following Order:

1. pools and ucs_domain_profiles*
2. policies
3. profiles

* It doesn't matter if you run pools or ucs_domain_profiles first as there is no dependency between both of them.  Both Just need to be run before you run policies and profiles.

## Disclaimer

This code is provided as is.  No warranty, support, or guarantee is provided with this.  But in typical github fashion there is the opportunity to collaborate and share Bug's/Feedback/PR Requests.

## Synopsis

The purpose of this Python Tool is to deploy Policy/Profiles to Intersight using Infastructure as Code with Terraform.  The Wizard is a step for users to create and better understand how to utilize Terraform for managing infrastrudture.

The goal of this module is to begin to familiarize you with Terraform through the following steps:  

1. Begin to familiarize users with Terraform format and variable creation.  
2. Once a user feels conformatable with auto generated files, Transition towards writing your own modules to consume the IMM Modules.
3. And lastly build your confidence to write your own code as well.  

The wizard will show after each section what the Terraform code being generated will look like.  Point you to the directly where the code will be stored.  And lastly, publish the code to Terraform Cloud and when you are ready.

## Contents

- Use Cases
- Create Pools
- Create Policies
- Deploy UCS Domains in IMM Mode
- Create UCS Service Profiles and Templates

### Use Cases

- Create Pools
- Create Policies
- Create UCS Domain Profiles and attach Fabric Interconnects to the profiles
- Create Service Profiles and Templates and deploy physical infrastructure

### Intersight Pools

This set of modules support creating the following Pool Types:

- FC Pools
- IP Pools
- IQN Pools
- MAC Pools
- UUID Pools

### Intersight Policies

This set of modules support creating the following Policy Types:

- Adapter Configuration
- BIOS
- Boot Order
- Certificate Management
- Device Connector
- Ethernet Adapter
- Ethernet Network
- Ethernet Network Control
- Ethernet Network Group
- Ethernet QoS
- Fibre Channel Adapter
- Fibre Channel Network
- Fibre Channel QoS
- IMC Access
- Flow Control
- IPMI Over LAN
- iSCSI Adapter
- iSCSI Boot
- iSCSI Static Target
- LAN Connectivity
- LDAP
- Link Aggregation
- Link Control
- Local User
- Multicast
- Network Connectivity
- NTP
- Persistent Memory
- Port
- Power
- SAN Connectivity
- SD Card
- Serial over LAN
- SMTP
- SNMP
- SSH
- Storage
- Switch Control
- Syslog
- System QoS
- Thermal
- Virtual KVM
- Virtual Media
- VLAN
- VSAN

### Intersight Profiles and Templates

This set of modules support creating the following Profile Types:

- UCS Chassis Profile
- UCS Domain Profile
- UCS Server Profile
- UCS Server Template - Important Note.  The script only uses Server Templates for holding policies.  This allows for flexibility around allowing the script to override policies by assigning unique policies to servers that is not supported by standard templates.

To sum this up... the goal is to deploy the infrastructure using Terraform through an easy to consume wizard.

## Resources

Youtube Video's to follow.  This is still a work in progress

Commit message:

corrections for hcl2json update

README.md, after:

# Intersight IaC Wizard

[![published](https://static.production.devnetcloud.com/codeexchange/assets/images/devnet-published.svg)](https://developer.cisco.com/codeexchange/github/repo/scotttyso/intersight_iac)

## Updates/News

03-08-2022
* Added Windows Support

* IMPORTANT - There is currently a bug with Policy Buckets for UCS Domain Profiles.  That is the only reason ucs_domain_profiles are not in the same folder as chassis and servers.  When this is fixed the ucs_domain_profiles folder will be merged with the profiles folder.  Because of this limitation at this time make sure to create a seperate policy for Domains of the following types:

- network_connectivity_policies - If Using Standalone Server Policies
- ntp_policies - If Using Standalone Server Policies
- snmp_policies
- syslog_policies

## Getting Started

## Install Visual Studio Code

- Download Here: [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download)

- Recommended Extensions: 
  - GitHub Pull Requests and Issues - Author GitHub
  - HashiCorp Terraform - Author HashiCorp
  - Pylance - Author Microsoft
  - Python - Author Microsoft
  - PowerShell (Windows) - Author Microsoft

- Authorize Visual Studio Code to GitHub via the GitHub Extension

## Install git

- Linux - Use the System Package Manager - apt/yum etc.

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install git
```

- Windows Download Here: [Git](https://git-scm.com/download/win)

configure Git Credentials

```bash
git config --global user.name "<username>"   
git config --global user.email "<email>"
```

### Fork this Repository to your own Repository


### Install the Go Compiler - Linux (Ubuntu Example)

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install golang
```
### Install the Go Compiler - Windows

- Download Here: [Go](https://go.dev/dl/)

- Add the Go Compiler to the System Path as Administrator.

```powershell
$oldpath = (Get-ItemProperty -Path 'Registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\Environment' -Name PATH).path
$newpath = "$oldpath;C:\Program Files\Go\bin"
Set-ItemProperty -Path 'Registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\Environment' -Name PATH -Value $newpath
```

- Update the System Path in the Visual Studio Terminal Window

```powershell
$env:Path = [System.Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariable("Path","Machine") + ";" + [System.Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariable("Path","User")
```

### Build hcl2json - Linux & Windows

```bash
git clone https://github.com/tmccombs/hcl2json
cd hcl2json
go build
```
### Move the hcl2json binary to a system Path

- Linux Example

```bash
mv ./hcl2json /usr/local/bin/
or 
mv ./hcl2json /usr/bin/
```

- Windows Example - Administrator Session

```powershell
move hcl2json.exe C:\Windows\
```

## Python Requirements

- Python 3.6 or Greater
- Linux - Use the System Package Manager - apt/yum etc.
- Windows Download Here: [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) 
- For Windows.  Make sure python.exe and pip.exe are available via the system path.
- Windows Example (The Folder Python310 would be according to the Python Release) - Administrator Session

```powershell
$oldpath = (Get-ItemProperty -Path 'Registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\Environment' -Name PATH).path
$newpath = "$oldpath;%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python310\;%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python310\Scripts\"
Set-ItemProperty -Path 'Registry::HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\Environment' -Name PATH -Value $newpath
```

- Update the System Path in the Visual Studio Terminal Window

```powershell
$env:Path = [System.Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariable("Path","Machine") + ";" + [System.Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariable("Path","User")
```

### Clone the Forked Repository to Local Machine

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/intersight_iac
```

- Install the Requirements File

```bash
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Terraform Requirements

The script utilizes features introduced in 0.14 of Terraform.  So we need 0.14 or preferrably >1.0

- Download Here [terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) 
- For Windows Make sure it is in a Directory that is in the system path.

### Terraform Modules and Providers

This script will utilize the Intersight Terraform Provider and two modules built off of the Intersight Provider.

- [Intersight Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/CiscoDevNet/intersight/latest)
- [IMM Module](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/terraform-cisco-modules/imm/intersight/latest)
- [Easy IMM](https://github.com/terraform-cisco-modules/terraform-intersight-easy-imm)

## Running the Wizard

- It is recommend to add the following secure variables to your environment before running the script

- Linux

```bash
## Intersight Variables
export TF_VAR_apikey="<your_intersight_api_key>"
export TF_VAR_secretkey=`cat ~/Downloads/SecretKey.txt` 
# The above example is based on the key being in your Downloads folder.  Correct for your environment.

## Terraform Cloud Variables
export TF_VAR_terraform_cloud_token="<your_terraform_cloud_token>"
```

- Windows - Plugin your API Keys and the File Location of the Intersight Secret Key.

```powershell
## Powershell Intersight Variables
$env:TF_VAR_apikey="<your_intersight_api_key>"
$env:TF_VAR_secretkey="$HOME\Downloads\SecretKey.txt"
# The above example is based on the key being in your Downloads folder.  Correct for your environment.

## Powershell Terraform Cloud Variables
$env:TF_VAR_terraform_cloud_token="<your_terraform_cloud_token>"
```

### Running the Wizard for Brownfield Migration with the IMM Transition Tool
- Running the wizard to use a configuration migrated from UCS Manager using the IMM Transition Tool

```bash
./main.py -j {json_file_name.json}
```

### Running the Wizard for Greenfield Deployment
- Running the Wizard to generate IaC through a Question and Answer Wizard

```bash
./main.py
```

## Wizard Help Menu

```bash
./main.py -h

Intersight Easy IMM Deployment Module

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -a API_KEY_ID, --api-key-id API_KEY_ID
                        The Intersight API client key id for HTTP signature scheme
  -s API_KEY_FILE, --api-key-file API_KEY_FILE
                        Name of file containing The Intersight secret key for the HTTP signature scheme
  --api-key-v3          Use New API client (v3) key
  -d DIR, --dir DIR     The Directory to Publish the Terraform Files to.
  -i, --ignore-tls      Ignore TLS server-side certificate verification
  -j JSON_FILE, --json_file JSON_FILE
                        The IMM Transition Tool JSON Dump File to Convert to HCL.
  -u URL, --url URL     The Intersight root URL for the API endpoint. The default is https://intersight.com
```

## Terraform Plan and Apply

After the Script has generated the Terraform Directories and downloaded the resources from the Easy IMM Repository, the data will need to be pushed to Intersight using Terraform Cloud.  It is important to execute the Workspaces in the following Order:

1. pools and ucs_domain_profiles*
2. policies
3. profiles

* It doesn't matter if you run pools or ucs_domain_profiles first as there is no dependency between both of them.  Both Just need to be run before you run policies and profiles.

## Disclaimer

This code is provided as is.  No warranty, support, or guarantee is provided with this.  But in typical github fashion there is the opportunity to collaborate and share Bug's/Feedback/PR Requests.

## Synopsis

The purpose of this Python Tool is to deploy Policy/Profiles to Intersight using Infastructure as Code with Terraform.  The Wizard is a step for users to create and better understand how to utilize Terraform for managing infrastrudture.

The goal of this module is to begin to familiarize you with Terraform through the following steps:  

1. Begin to familiarize users with Terraform format and variable creation.  
2. Once a user feels conformatable with auto generated files, Transition towards writing your own modules to consume the IMM Modules.
3. And lastly build your confidence to write your own code as well.  

The wizard will show after each section what the Terraform code being generated will look like.  Point you to the directly where the code will be stored.  And lastly, publish the code to Terraform Cloud and when you are ready.

## Contents

- Use Cases
- Create Pools
- Create Policies
- Deploy UCS Domains in IMM Mode
- Create UCS Service Profiles and Templates

### Use Cases

- Create Pools
- Create Policies
- Create UCS Domain Profiles and attach Fabric Interconnects to the profiles
- Create Service Profiles and Templates and deploy physical infrastructure

### Intersight Pools

This set of modules support creating the following Pool Types:

- FC Pools
- IP Pools
- IQN Pools
- MAC Pools
- UUID Pools

### Intersight Policies

This set of modules support creating the following Policy Types:

- Adapter Configuration
- BIOS
- Boot Order
- Certificate Management
- Device Connector
- Ethernet Adapter
- Ethernet Network
- Ethernet Network Control
- Ethernet Network Group
- Ethernet QoS
- Fibre Channel Adapter
- Fibre Channel Network
- Fibre Channel QoS
- IMC Access
- Flow Control
- IPMI Over LAN
- iSCSI Adapter
- iSCSI Boot
- iSCSI Static Target
- LAN Connectivity
- LDAP
- Link Aggregation
- Link Control
- Local User
- Multicast
- Network Connectivity
- NTP
- Persistent Memory
- Port
- Power
- SAN Connectivity
- SD Card
- Serial over LAN
- SMTP
- SNMP
- SSH
- Storage
- Switch Control
- Syslog
- System QoS
- Thermal
- Virtual KVM
- Virtual Media
- VLAN
- VSAN

### Intersight Profiles and Templates

This set of modules support creating the following Profile Types:

- UCS Chassis Profile
- UCS Domain Profile
- UCS Server Profile
- UCS Server Template - Important Note.  The script only uses Server Templates for holding policies.  This allows for flexibility around allowing the script to override policies by assigning unique policies to servers that is not supported by standard templates.

To sum this up... the goal is to deploy the infrastructure using Terraform through an easy to consume wizard.

## Resources

Youtube Video's to follow.  This is still a work in progress
